hello this is mk
today we watch the queen's gambit
episode 2.
jolene tells beth how she looked with
the jar of tranquilizers
but beth is determined to memorize all
the chess strategies in the book
she does not seem phased by recent
events
beth tells mr shable that the orphanage
will not let her play chess anymore as a
punishment
hints that there's a period of time
where beth does not play chess
competitively
rather she stores moves in her heads for
years until she's a teenager
a couple is interested in adopting her
helen lists her achievements to the
couple
after a meeting with the parents she is
asked to pack
beth is officially adopted remembering
jolene expressed how rare it is for
black children to be adopted and the
older they get
the less likely it becomes she
apologizes to jolene that she was never
adopted
while she's packing she cannot find the
book opening
the one shable gave beth is introduced
to her new home and is toured by her
adopted mother
she is shown her room and she is
surprised by how much space she has
the next morning she heads downstairs to
hear her new mother play the piano
she asks her mother where her husband is
she explains he has gone on a business
trip
the conversation turns to children and
her new mother explains they
used to have a child there's clearly a
tragedy in this marriage
and the tension in the room suggests
that getting a daughter was the last
throw of the dice
shortly after the couple arranged school
for beth
beth embarks on her first day at high
school
she observes the other students their
conversations
and clothes in mathematics
beth knows the answer to a complex term
and girls nearby call her another
brain at lunch beth sits on her own
she asks a girl nearby if there's a
chess club at the school
the girl explains there's nothing like
that but there are social clubs
which requires an invitation by the
girls
it's evident that during this time girls
doing an activity like chess was not
seen as normal
beth's new mother takes her out to buy
her new clothes after the father wonders
why she never changes
on the way out of the shop beth wants to
buy a chess set
her mother tells her to save up for one
the next day
beth asks the librarian if they have any
books on chess
the librarian tells her about books
about grand masters
while checking out the books she sees
two students hooking up
with chess always on her mind beth needs
to adapt
she strategizes to make her mark in the
chess world while out getting cigarettes
for her adoptive mother
beth notices a chess magazine but she's
told if she wants to read it
she needs to buy it and she steals it
when beth returns her mother talks about
financial
woes beth suggests that she could get a
job to earn money so she can enter a
chess tournament
her mother tells beth that only colored
girls get jobs at her age
beth writes letters to mr shable seeking
for five dollars to pay for the entrance
and promised to pay back 10 dollars if
she wins
beth's mother sends her to the shop to
get a prescription
oh that looks familiar tranquilizers
she steals half the bottle for herself
and in the middle of the night
she imagines chess on the ceiling again
the next day she gets a letter with
money inside
with the five dollars from mr shable
beth goes to the tournament
the organizers tell her that there's no
women's section and they are surprised
she wants to play as she is unrated
beth's first opponent is a girl and she
defeats her quickly
afterwards she watches state champions
play each other
in the second round beth beats her
opponent and forces him to resign
in the third round she plays against
towns
an opponent that she has been hearing a
lot about throughout the tournament
beth seems nervous around him she puts
towns in a bad playing position
and when she beats him he is genuinely
impressed with how good she is for her
age
afterward beth experiences her first
period and a girl helps her out
when beth returns home her mother seems
upset while playing the piano
beth grabs her pills and sees the phone
is off hook in the mother's bedroom
the mother's husband has left and she
suggests lying to the authorities
so she does not have to go back to the
orphanage
her mother tells beth that she will
learn to be a real mother as long she
does not go near denver
at the tournament beth is against harry
beltic in the final
the one everyone says is the best and
state champion
harry has an arrogance about him yawning
between plays and acting chill about the
situation
beth is a little deterred by his chess
playing ability and speed
suddenly she goes to the bathroom and
takes some tranquilizers
she calls herself an ugly piece of trash
and tells herself she can beat him
when she returns she's more confident
and harry buckles under pressure
harry refuses to resign and he lets her
play it out
eventually she throws him into
submission and everyone applauds
beth becomes a sensation in the local
papers of kentucky
she won 100 and her adoptive mother is
impressed and didn't realize there was
so much prize money in this type of game
the next day beth opens a bank account
with her mother
her mother's eyes lit up when she saw
the financial opportunity
beth pays for a chessboard her mother
tells her about a chess tournament with
the prize money of 500
the mother plans the logistics and hotel
for her
[Music]
stay tuned for update on episode 3.